hi everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
part 6 of our little dumb shell ping
overview our little Joel makan qua
glance at Azra Vogel's new book dumb
shell paying and the transformation of
China came out recently published by
Belknap press at Harvard where dr. Vogel
is a professor emeritus we've traced
some shell pings life all the way up to
the end of 1976 that year in Chinese
history that produced so many shockers
dong had a lot of friends and allies
where and when it counted I mentioned
last time that yet Chen Yin and Li Chen
Yin had already begun to feel out walk
well fung about maybe letting tongue
come back and resume his work in the
party and the government walk well fung
though getting nothing except the
fullest support from everyone high up
he's still wary of bringing back such a
force of nature as them shell ping his
record going back to the 1920s always
spoke for itself he was a doer not a
talker and everyone knew why Mao had
been pushing him down and then kept
picking him back up
so in this episode and again when I came
up with this brainy idea to sort of skim
over Vogel's new book and introduced
unshelled ping I was thinking maybe
three or four episodes but here it is
we're just getting started and now it's
episode six I fear the worst
but this is turning into the dung Xiao
ping history podcast
anyways let's keep going and see how far
we can get today before the buzzer rings
so let's get started with the beginning
of the end for chairman hua qual Fung
like I said last time he really rose to
the occasion when it came to dealing
with Mao's death and smashing the Gang
of Four but he ended up shooting himself
in the foot shortly thereafter on
February 7th 1977 in an editorial in the
three most important party mouthpieces
namely people's daily red flag and
Liberation Army daily Gua came out with
an editorial which became known as the
to whatever's the lianca Phan share this
was where hua says quote we will
resolutely uphold whatever policy
decisions chairman mao made and
unswervingly follow what
instructions chairman mao gave the to
whatever his ladies and gentlemen now
think about this for a second if you
were an up-and-comer without a very deep
power base and you needed to sort of
shore up your power and authority at the
top in the face of all these legendary
70 and 80 year old party elders what
would you do
waz strongest card that he held his one
ace the one degree of separation that
stood between the top position of
authority and political oblivion was
that Chairman Mao had personally made
the decision for Gua to replace him so
wok what fun was playing this card here
because if the party line was that
whatever Mao said was gospel then who
could say anything against it or for
that matter against Guagua phone mouse
chosen successor remember the famous
words knee Punisher will function with
you in charge
I am Eddie's why was playing this card
so all the wah people lined up behind
him and this became known as the
whatever faction chief among them was
one tone shing who we mentioned in the
last episode was head of the palace
guard if you will who did that
bang-up excellent job arresting the Gang
of Four he may have helped bring them
down but that didn't mean he was a dong
shellping man or a reformist if we can
now officially start using this word
these reformists as they began to be
called they were led by the old legends
like dung of course Wang Jun ya Chen
Ying cool move chang-geun
Kung Lao and of course all the
collective protégées of all these men
they all to the last man didn't really
think the Cultural Revolution was a very
productive campaign and they all sort of
did whatever they had to do to survive
it
so now Chairman Mao is gone and it's
still too early everyone agrees on this
it's still too early to start passing
judgments about my legacy and messing
around with that third rail but just the
same none of these guys most of whom had
suffered the usual degradation 's and
humiliations during the Cultural
Revolution wanted to make an official
policy to say whatever Mao said was
correct that was sort of like cutting
themselves off at the knees and the big
issue the main thing that took center
stage when looking at the to whatever's
was the whole tnmn April 5th incident
to 1976 officially in the record this
was dungs fault
not only did no one believe this but
irrefutable evidence had been uncovered
that proved the whole April 5th thing
was all trumped up by gen Ching and her
three other cohorts and thanks to these
charges now proven false Doong ended up
taking a big fall so here's wonjun yet
yin yang lee hsien yin and Chen Yin all
lobbying hard and taking a stand bring
Tong back into the leadership if the to
whatever's became party policy then
forget about bringing dong Xiao ping
back that would be against one of the
whatever's and besides there were on a
very simple level two kinds of people
who were now vying for power those who
had suffered from the Cultural
Revolution and those who had benefited
obviously Kwok well Fung was the poster
boy as far as who had benefited so
February 7th wen hua let's this one fly
this editorial was like a catalyst that
caused the reformists you know all the
Joanne Lai types to sort of coalesce and
unite there was this buzz in the air
around this notion that this was a
critical moment for China you know sort
of like the 1880s 1890s China reached a
crossroads and had to do or die take one
side or the other in this case open up
or continue to keep the Westerners at
bay with the scent of the to whatever's
lingering in the air after all that had
just happened it just seemed the wrong
path
choosing strict party orthodoxy over
practical measures and besides all this
the way most people felt they had had
enough of these policies and the mood to
reaffirm them all and paint the country
into a corner was just too unpopular a
sentiment in 1977 hey who knew so right
about now the tide is starting to turn
and walk well fung the reformists they
were still pushing hard for Dunn's
return in Hua Guofeng and Wong don't
Shan were with all their foot dragging
and in so many words saying hey what's
the hurry
although dung had been formally cleared
of any blame for the April 50 an
unmanned incident he was still on the
sidelines still not in any position of
power
but that didn't stop dumb for making it
clear he was not at all in favor of Waze
editorial calling for the to whatever's
he still had an opinion and he was still
punk shell Pig the pressure was really
on for quat to do something as far as
Dunn's future was concerned finally in
May of 1977 after Dunn writes a letter
that without reservation said he
accepted Magua funds leadership and then
after this letter was circulated around
the party and everyone got to see the
proof well I felt secure enough
politically to make Dunn's return
official my new dung still wouldn't come
out and say anything good about the to
whatever's but as long as he was so
publicly affirming waz leadership he was
okay for now
so don was gonna be put back in all his
former positions of power he's back
being a foods only a vice-premier he was
back in charge of the military and
foreign affairs and in addition to this
Dunn volunteered to take up the
portfolio of science technology and
education three causes that Dunn had a
passion for Vogel points out that Dunn
was most of all dedicated to science and
considered that to be the engine that
would drive advancements in agriculture
industry and national defense and these
four modernizations as they became known
science plus the three I just mentioned
were one of the cornerstones of dumbs
later legacy Wow was more than happy to
let dung do this because there wasn't
any real obvious relation between
science and the core party issues of the
day
maybe hua thought this would all keep
dung busy and hopefully too busy to
mount any serious political challenges
to waz leadership in fact it was the
science aspect of dongs portfolio where
he dedicated the most time and energy
the military he shared these
responsibilities with the other CMC
vice-chairman yet geunyang but yeah it
did all the heavy lifting dung didn't
get too overly involved in Foreign
Affairs either yet no his baby was
science and technology and he was making
fundamental changes which included
bringing back a lot of these people like
teachers professors and scientists
bringing them back into the mainstream
and assuring them no you know hundred
Flowers thing you know followed by an
anti right as campaign was gonna stamp
on them for pursuing these intellectual
and technical pursuits and done
personally saw to it that science was
advanced in the classrooms and who knows
how many scientists in China today born
in the late 70s early 80s who benefited
from these changes
Doug's official big moment came at the
third plenum of the 10th Party Congress
July 17 1977 the topic titled quote the
decision concerning the return of
comrade dung Xiao ping to work was
discussed in its actually on this state
that done formally and by the book
resumes his former positions and titles
that he lost after he took the fall for
the April 5th incident so he went from
political disgrace to the number three
position on the CCP totem pole hua was
first a jinyang second and done third
head of leash Union and Wanda Ling could
come back a few days later done
addressed the gathered party leaders and
members and laid out his priorities they
were improvement to the treatment of
intellectuals and party building he went
on to say a lot about Chairman Mao and
how to interpret what he said and how to
apply it to different situations and was
still as gung-ho as ever in declaring
Mao's thought to be the guiding light of
the CCP so now it's all official when
dum made his debut in the public eye on
July 30th 1977 at the China versus Hong
Kong soccer match in Beijing he got a
resounding standing ovation there seemed
to be genuine elation across the broad
masses about done coming back but
mid-august at the 11th Party Congress
already the party unity that had held so
well after Mao died was now showing
signs of cracks Kwas faction was still
making a lot of noise about Mao and you
know being a little too heavy with the
propaganda and for the first time you
start to see a lot of grumbling about
the way Kwok will fund is handling
things so once again it looks like
these two factions are gonna go to the
mattresses and dunk shale paying and his
closing address at the session made a
masterful political move by uttering the
words quote we must revive and carry
forward the practice of seeking the true
path from facts the fine tradition and
style which Chairman Mao fostered now
this was gonna be a hard one to refute
in one fell swoop dung declares his
loyalty and respect to Mao but at the
same time says Churchill sure seek truth
from facts so these four characters we
today attribute to dung dung was telling
the assembled multitude at the Great
Hall of the People hey I didn't say it
miles said it so for the time being
everyone just sort of chewed on that for
a while no coup d'etats carried out just
yet instead dung plunged headfirst into
his main passion not playing bridge but
building the foundation in China to
foster an atmosphere of scientific
learning and innovation
he attacked this head-on and with the
usual degree of enthusiasm so 1977-78
these were very productive years for
dung from the ground up he rebuilt
systems and created conditions such that
education and science could once again
thrive naturally in a civilization that
had once led the world for thousands of
years and feats of science engineering
invention this rushed to modernize an
upgrade China's brainpower included
sending thousands of graduate students
to the great universities of the world
especially in the u.s. to study science
when this policy personally touched me
because when I was just starting to
learn Chinese at the University of
Illinois I befriended many of these
visiting scholars as they were known
back then who were you know mostly
40-something year old men studying
physics or something like that and these
guys all taught me a lot and they were
the very first Chinese from the mainland
that I ever met and they did exactly
what dung expected of them spent long
hours in the lab soaking up every
possible drop of knowledge and
information and then brought it back to
China and then collectively done thought
with
these tens of thousands of visiting
scholars all cycling in and out of China
the total knowledge base would
theoretically slowly begin to lift off
and be built on a strong foundation so
this is what done busied himself with
sounds easy but it wasn't
he micromanage this because he knew
being a big-picture man a visionary that
if China was going to become what we now
see in the 21st century they had to
start at the bottom and start at once
that's what he did
he moved people around cleared log jams
created institutions and made endless
recommendations which from a guy ranked
third in the party were taken
essentially as an order
well percolating in the background
amidst all this was an ideological
battle lined up on one side where
everyone who supported the ideas behind
the to what Evers and facing off against
this club were those who now had their
own to whatever so to speak these were
the party loyalists who subscribed
instead to their own signature article
that appeared in the paper this one came
out May 10th 1978 called
practice is the sole criterion for
judging truth in short it was sort of
diametrically opposite from what the to
whatever is espoused you could really
only choose one or the other you
couldn't subscribe to both it wen hua
and his partner won don't shing saw this
printed they used all their might to
squelch this article thing and they
stamp their feet and pounded the tables
to put this cranberry sauce back in the
can but it was out and even though it's
still 31 years before we see the first
Weibo the word spread fast and everyone
saw the article and it was one of them
shell pings chief protegees who yell
bong who was running with this ball so
not unless someone big would stand up
for him in the face of hua and Wong's
pressure all the momentum would be lost
well of course someone big did back up
who yell bong dung came out publicly in
sided firmly with who and that was that
now everyone knew where everyone stood
and by the way even though Wong quill
Fung was the CMC chairman Central
Military Committee
guess who controlled the military wah or
the team of yet geunyang and done so
interesting dynamic developing but who
needed the military when the whole mood
of the country seemed to all be moving
in one direction in Chapter 7 of Vogel's
book he mentions three turning points
the three things that happen that
irreversibly changed the tide and put
some shellping into the topmost position
these three events all in 1978 were cool
moves study tour to Western Europe from
May 2nd to June 6th the central party
work conference on November and the
third plenum of the 11th Party Congress
let's quickly look at all three let's do
ghoul Moo's trip first ghoul Moo he was
of course a high-ranking official in the
central government vice premier high up
in the Central Committee GU later played
a leading role in setting up the special
economic zones later on so he led a
group of 22 western Europe between May
2nd and June 6th 1978 they went to 15
cities of France Switzerland Germany
Denmark and Belgium the importance of
this trip was not only that it was such
an eye opener on the one hand the things
they saw magnified China's backwardness
but in the other hand it laid out for
all to see what the possibilities were
for China if they opened up and embrace
the West then cool move came back to
China after the trip and he was able to
very effectively report his findings in
such a way that it struck a nerve and
people stood up and took notice and on
the eve of their trip before Google in
the delegation left for Europe dung
visited him personally and gave him
last-minute instructions and told him
quote we ought to study the successful
experiences of capitalist countries and
bring them back to China well let me
tell you there was no way you could say
these kind of words when Mao was alive
well what is there to say I'm not going
to go so far as to compare it to the
tales Jiang Chen brought back to
I'm rule D during the Han Dynasty y'alls
remember that one
CHP episode 47 Jiang Chen came back from
a decade-long journey to the west and
when he got in front of the Emperor he
informed him were not alone there's
other huge and mighty civilizations out
there when Google moves delegation
returned they immediately met with all
the top leaders and the stories they
brought back the things they said were
downright fantastical to everyone
gathered there including while Fung and
of course Wang dong Shing everyone heard
one jaw-dropping thing after another
about the advances in science and
technology the openness of their society
the relative wealth of common workers
that transportation infrastructures you
name it this delegation was like a
sponge and they brought back first-hand
information right at the perfect time
when the groundswell fir opening up to
the west was just beginning to happen
they said these capitalist countries
were also willing to lend capital and
transfer technology I mean this was
completely unexpected in shocking news
in goo mu he was so respected for his
pragmatic no-nonsense and professional
way he did everything no one would dare
question his word or doubt his integrity
or that he might you know spin the
reports in favor of you know one way
they sat back and listened well into the
evening by the time the last report had
been given and the last question
answered everyone was sufficiently
stunned to the extent that there was
this feeling that there could be no
going back and the to whatever's now
seemed even more out of touch and
impractical than ever before dung met
with goo mu personally and got his own
briefing the two discussed what to do
next and they decided that textiles
phunkderp II was the way to go this is
the industry they opened up first and
used as the guinea pig bringing in all
kinds of Western technologies and
processes done and güell MU believed
they should start with textiles and use
this to ignite the whole light
industrial manufacturing business in
China and you know the rest of
versus history so we can really trace
China's opening up to this event June
1978 the doors swung open in China and
the earliest foreigners began to arrive
China was now open for business the next
thing that helped to usher in the dung
era was the 36 day central party work
conference November 10th to December 15
this was Tong Xiao ping Sonique remember
that Sony conference January 1935 - Inez
and northern Cueto this was the
conference the event that put Maul in
the driver's seat as far as you know who
was the main man at the party Center
dung called the discussion at this work
conference the best and most lively
since the hundred Flowers campaign in
other words he was supporting all the
very frank and open exchange is
expressed by the 210 top officials
attending the work conference being such
an important meeting at all it was this
work conference that would sort of lay
the groundwork for the upcoming third
plenum of the 11th Party Congress and of
course you know chairman Kwok well fun
was in charge and he opens up the work
conference and says we're gonna talk
about you know this and this first and
then suddenly the whole tone sort of
shifted what was on everyone's mind
you see wasn't so much how to implement
these reforms as much as how wrong this
whole - what Evers idea was you see
times had changed I suppose it was a
combination of a lot of things but the
prevailing atmosphere was not so much in
favor of reform and opening up to the
outside world as it was to first reject
all the policies going back to the Great
Leap Forward so in 1978 thanks to dung
sufficiently rallying the forces and
flying all over China to get everyone
pumped and using all his energies to
advance these cause as he believed and
people were sufficiently fed up to speak
out more boldly bagua Fung he should
have seen it coming essentially he was
thinking one thing and everyone else was
thinking something else and the showdown
where hua was sort of
respectfully you know push to the
sidelines happened between November 11th
to the 25th
during this 1978 work conference there
were complaints about the to whatever is
and that wah had been too slow and
obstructive to reverse the verdicts on
the April 5th Tiananmen incident and he
was too slow and reversing some of the
chief wrongs of the Cultural Revolution
and not fairly dealing with all those
party faithful who had been unjustly
accused of all kinds of political
charges and people said that was should
never be said in public that tongue had
been wrongfully removed from leadership
and by removing dung this opened the way
for hua to get in through the back door
you know now he's the top guy so you
know they're saying that he benefited
from Dunn's misfortune ouch that hurt
but in many different ways this was the
kind of talk that went on and all these
dozens of small groups that met and
exchanged ideas invented and more and
more the talk all seemed to say the same
thing Hua Guofeng no offense shouldn't
be the man in charge and it took yet
geunyang to go tap walking on the
shoulder and tell him you should resign
himself to the totally changed mood in
the room in hua took this advice under
consideration and all the sudden he
started becoming reformer in charge you
know like the culture emperor chen Yuen
one of the oldest and wisest of the
party elders gave a key speech where he
came out and itemized all of those
groups of people who had been unjustly
dealt with him who should be
rehabilitated among those who should
have their verdicts reversed was marshal
Pongo hai and Chen said puns ashes
should be interred at the Baba shan
cemetery and he said the April 5th
incident should be considered a popular
mass movement rather than some counter
revolutionary incident and a guy like
Chen Yin he carried a lot of weight he
was always a sort of a dry no-nonsense
very conservative guy his son Chen UN is
today the governor of the China
Development Bank which is a position of
ministerial rank so he's a big guy but
not as big as his father was though
interesting to note one other thing
and said concerned mr. Kong Chung who we
discussed a long time ago in an earlier
podcast number CHP 11 Chen said Cong had
been a villain of the Cultural
Revolution and so heinous were his
actions that he should be posthumously
expelled from the party and trust me no
one liked that guy so there was not much
resistance to that by the end of the
conference everyone was getting
everything off their chest this whole
work conference had turned into this
unprecedented moment hua was in full
retreat I mean he caved on everything
including everything Chen WA and asked
for the power struggle was in full force
by the end of 1978 Wong Dongsheng him -
he tried to hold back the rising tide
but he was another one who was sort of a
nobody who had totally benefited from
being in charge of the palace guard
during the Cultural Revolution and
didn't really deserve to have all the
authority he had so wah and Wong were
now on very shaky ground but appearances
were capped and nobody got pushed out of
the way yet the two most influential
voices now belonged to dong Xiao ping
and Chen Yin it was left up to yet
geunyang to work something out between
tongue and Wan he set up a kind of
arrangement where Tong became a kind of
prima centre Paris first among equals so
done came out and said first we're not
gonna trash mouth no matter what
everyone thinks mal thought is still the
party's guiding principle and then most
of all done called first ability that's
what China needed right now as 1979 was
approaching some stability to create the
right environment to effectively carry
out the four modernizations
December 13 1978 the party work
conference concludes and done gives the
keynote address at the closing session
this is where he said all those
assembled had to learn how to emancipate
their minds seek truth from facts and
unite as one as far as mild Saddam was
concerned he was a great man who made
some errors and there's no need right
now to make looking into these heirs a
party priority so mouths official legacy
was safe for now and he went right into
the
cussing all his ideas about reform
opening up establishing the
responsibility system allowing some
capitalistic practices to return and
then taking the risk that maybe some in
society might benefit from these
policies before others so the new era
had now begun now this whole five-week
work conference was really one of those
kinds of dress rehearsals for a bigger
and more high-profile event and this
event of course was the third plenum of
the 11th Party Congress this was the
official blast off of guy cook - reform
and opening-up not just talking about it
at the third plenum it became the party
line the session began less than a week
after done gave us historic closing
speech at the work conference the long
and short of this historic moment in
Chinese history was that dung officially
became the paramount leader although his
titles didn't change on paper while was
still the top guy there was absolutely
no fanfare given and nothing in the
papers that mentioned the shift of power
at the very very capstone of the pyramid
so by the end of 1978 and then in the
1979 tong became the top guy without any
of the trappings of this position and
slowly slowly in a very steady and
methodical way he pushed
waagh well fungicide one speech at a
time one directive at a time drip drip
drip slowly he diminished woz Authority
in standing and all the while and
especially after the third plenum was
history you had the whole democracy wall
thing happening and the Chinese people
got in on the act - they figured if
everyone else on high is talking about
this stuff
I guess so can we and right from the
get-go done the Xiao Peng was faced with
this nagging question of how far it was
safe to go and allowing the people to
vent their anger and frustrations where
to draw the line the criticism became
more and more bold and some of those
that dare to air their grievances they
really didn't hold anything back in
March wait Ching Chung made his big
debut calling for the fifth
modernization right about now Don must
have really known how
Oh felt after the hundred flowers had
bloomed in the summer of 1957 after
encouraging the people to speak up they
did so a little bit too enthusiastically
for Dunn's liking so March 28 1979 done
puts the kibosh on all thing it had
started to get out of hand and the time
had come to take action wait Qing Chun
was arrested and on March 30th Tung
announced the four cardinal principles
the chief bunions ax dung said writings
that challenged the socialist path the
dictatorship of the proletariat the
leadership of the CCP
or Marxism Leninism Mao Zedong Thought
we're not allowed and that my friends
was the end more or less of the whole
democracy wall thing if there was one
thing done didn't like it was
unwarranted criticism of the party and
anything that challenged party supremacy
before we call it quits let's just look
at one more big event in the life of
dung Xiao ping this involves the war
with Vietnam in early 1979 how did that
whole thing start well Vietnam China
relations had a long complicated history
going back to the earliest times there
was no love lost between these two
on-again off-again friends and rivals
but after the Vietnam War ended with the
u.s. which by the way China supported
the Vietcong to a very high degree the
relationship wasn't too good now and now
Vietnam was snuggling up close to Russia
this is when the Russians moved into Cam
Ranh Bay and got to enjoy all the
infrastructure left behind by the
Americans so now what we Americans faced
in Cuba in 1962 china was looking at the
same potential situation they didn't
like it and all that it implied you have
a lot of ethnic Chinese in Vietnam and
under the new regime in Hanoi the ethnic
Chinese didn't fare too well and were
the targets of constant attacks these
Chinese Vietnamese began fleeing across
the border into China and as the
pressure became worse and you know the
stories got out you know what they were
facing in Vietnam in fact it got so bad
that the chai
government demanded to the Vietnamese
that they cut this out
the Vietnamese paid this no heed and the
persecution continued China Vietnam
relations continued to deteriorate in
1977 and 78 in fact dung spent most of
1978 on the road visiting new foreign
friends and trying to drum up support
not only for his four modernizations
but also to counter the soviet vietnam
threat this was the time also in mid to
late 1978 that dung also began sending
out all kinds of positive signals to all
the overseas Chinese of Southeast Asia
and encourage them to show their
patriotism and lend their support and
helping to build the new China he opened
up relations with Japan who done saw as
a key and helping China to achieve its
goals and technological advancement on
August 12 1978 two treaty was signed in
relations resumed between these
neighbors who you know China and Japan
who over 2000 years had been the best of
friends and the most bitter of enemies
now also going on in the background in
mid 1978 where the talks to resume
diplomatic relations between the US and
China Jimmy Carter was president and he
had his people working on this sensitive
subject will focus in on the whole
episode of us-china relations in 1978-79
another podcast there's a lot that Vogel
has written about this chapter and done
this life and of course tongues
triumphant visit to the u.s. in January
February 1979 right on the heels of
being named times man of the year and
this of course was the time when sino
mania started taking off in the US and
it would hit a huge impact on me that's
for sure it was right at this time just
a few months after done visited the US
and there was so much buzz in the air
about the potential of us-china
relations on all fronts and right then
in early 1979 I remember I said I gotta
learn to speak this language that's when
I started learning Chinese anyways I
digress those were heady times let's get
back to Vietnam and then we'll call it
quits
February 17th to March 16th one month
things had deteriorated
efficiently enough between China and
Vietnam by early 1979 something had to
give everyone new Vietnam was going to
pull the trigger and invade Cambodia one
of China's little buddies the guy in
charge down there in Cambodia was none
other than Pol Pot he was telling dung
would be a good idea to send some troops
down to Cambodia and you know sort of
flood the zone like China did in North
Korea back in the early 50s against the
Americans but dung didn't want to get
bogged down in anything long-term he
opted instead for a quick one-two punch
quick strike get in get out you know
mind you while all this is going on this
planning of the attack and escalation
and hostilities between China and
Vietnam this was all behind-the-scenes
stuff - all the action that we just
talked about you know the work
conference the third plenum all this was
going on at the same time so dung he
came out on top at the end of 1978
Vietnam invades Cambodia and overthrows
Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge regime and now
it's early 1979 and dung advocates to go
in and whack Vietnam dung had full
ownership of this war with Vietnam it
was his baby from start to finish
February 17th the attack begins 200,000
Chinese soldiers invade across the
sino-vietnam border in the end 25,000
Chinese killed 37,000 wounded they took
the northern provincial capital of Lang
son right across the border they also
took a few other provincial capitals but
most of the fighting was centered around
lime song anyways they took the city
declared victory and true to his word
dung had everyone out of there in 29
days now if you ask any Chinese they'll
say we went in we kicked Viet Nam's but
if you ask a Vietnamese they'll say the
total opposite china proved a couple
points by this 29 day war but overall
they certainly didn't kick the
vietnamese out of cambodia vietnam only
started to withdraw 1988 so who won this
war is still in dispute but one thing's
for sure it wasn't a fabulous showing by
china and exposed to the leaders china's
inadequacy as a
fighting force but this whole episode
did give the Soviets food for thought as
far as how easy it wasn't going to be to
use Vietnam to contain China in the
Vietnamese knew if they had their sights
on any other Southeast Asian nations
territory the Chinese weren't gonna
stand idly by
so not only the sino-soviet border but
the sino-vietnam border
were flooded with troops facing off
against each other and this is the way
it was until things cooled down a little
Dunn's main goal was to crush any
attempts for the Soviet Union and
Vietnam to encircle China this is what
he wanted to avoid and on this point
Tong succeeded but anyway you look at it
the sino Vietnam War of January February
1979 wasn't China's finest hour but they
succeeded just enough to be able to
claim victory and I think we'll stop
here we're running a little longer than
I like we're only about halfway through
as raffles new biography of dong Xiao
ping here is where the author offers up
a tidal wave of information about what
happened once done return to the top
spot
China was reintegrating herself into the
world community of nations modernizing
transforming society and doing a lot of
stuff all at one time
next week we'll pick up in 1979 and try
and get through the main bullet points
of Doug's life from here on out
hopefully we'll make some headway next
time we only got one single year out of
the way in this episode so that's it now
for a little administrative stuff as
most you know who download this podcast
from iTunes I've been having nothing but
pain trying to transition from my old
website and feed to a new one still
working on it let me just say that all
68 episodes including this one are
always available 24/7 from my new
website at China History podcast.com
just China history podcast.com that'll
take you to my site everything's there
you could listen or download whatever
you like in the iTunes world the earlier
shows are all missing iWeb only limits
me to 50 shows and in the iTunes Store
so that's why I have to keep trimming
all the earlier episodes
everything is always available at the
website hang in there and I'm hoping in
a week or two I'll have everything
totally fixed I'm announcing to you
today that when all this is settled
you're gonna have to do the unthinkable
and that is of course subscribe to us a
whole new China history podcast feed but
when you subscribe all episodes will be
included everything going back to the
beginning will be in there so that's
what's going on there and that's all I
have for today
this is Lazlo Montgomery your humble
narrator as always well not always but
almost always signing off from Claremont
California right on the easternmost edge
of Los Angeles County join us next week
if you have the time for another edition
of the dumb shopping history podcast
yeah I know that's what it's becoming
isn't it hey but what a life he had I
hope you're enjoying this overview as
much as I am
take care all and hope to see you next
time for another exciting episode of the
China history podcast